# What have I learnt?
## Bootstrap

### Bootstrap Gridsystem

Reference: https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/layout/grid/

Divide into 12 pieces, use class name to control width

## Event handling in JS

### Prevent onClick propagating (Bubbling)

**Scenario:** A checkbox inside table row. Row has an onClick event. Click on checkbox will also triggers row's onClick event. I don't want that.

**Solution:** checkbox's onClick event should include `event.stopPropagation()`.

Note that adding `stopPropagation()` in checkbox's `onChange` won't stop the propagation of `onClick` to parent class (row in this case).

This seems obvious ... but I failed that actually LUL

# Openshift

Wow, a lot a lot to learn.

### Docker

Seems like a big VM manager for images. It includes routers + tools to create instances.

Comparison?

VM : Create many OS instances, allocate resources like CPU/RAM to instances

Docker / Openshift: Use that available resources (CPU/RAM) to run your things.

Docker Image is like a standalone env/folder running Python2/3 / Java 1.7/1.8 / C++ with gcc/M$ compiler ... all the envs you can name? Then you run your own software on these images (concept of microservice)

### Openshift

#### Many new terms -- projects, containers, pods, services ...

So we can have many projects in OpenShift, different permission settings can be adjusted to different projects.

Like 1 Project has 50 Users (they can edit settings of instances created by different users in the same project)

1 User has several Projects that only he/she can work with

So how about pods and services?

In microservice design, 1 pod should map to 1 service ... not really sure about the borderline between them

#### Pods

Has runtime - can set **readiness check** and **health check** (must be same as the application port -- will ram target pod periodically for checking... if dead, kill and restart)

## Rant
### React
No warning / error message when passing props that are undefined at all.
```
<CustomComponent
  someprop={this.undefinedthingbytypo}
/>
```
Don't know why linter won't give me any error messages at all if those props are `"this."something` ... linter just shows `any`
