# SSH Tunneling
## `ssh -L`

Set a local port in your current machine to somewhere else. In other words, they throw their port to yours.

```
# Syntax
https://www.tunnelsup.com/how-to-create-ssh-tunnels/
ssh -L <LOCAL PORT>:<REMOTE HOST THEY THROW>:<REMOTE PORT THEY THROW> <GATEWAY>

# local address (127.0.0.1) seems optional?
ssh -L (<local-accessible host> optional):<local port> ... same as above

```

Need to make sure the gateway has access to the remote host, otherwise it just won't work.

Also, remote host and remote port can be the same machine as gateway.

One usage of 'same machine' case can be: you want to visit their webpage but got firewalled (no direct connection to their port `80`).

You can forward their port `80` to your local `8080`.
`ssh -L 8080:sshhost:80 loginname@sshhost`

Then you can visit "your 8080" to view the website.

From https://blog.trackets.com/2014/05/17/ssh-tunnel-local-and-remote-port-forwarding-explained-with-examples.html

Slightly complicated example: `ssh -L 9000:localhost:5432 user@example.com`

From the blog entry: "localhost is from the server's perspective", which is `example.com`. This means example.com will forward their 5432 to your local machine 9000.

This can be used in a case of firewall blocking 5432 directly but you can SSH to that server...

## `ssh -R`

```
# Syntax
ssh -R <port of remote server>:<localhost ... or host you have direct connection>:<local port> <user@gateway remote server>
```

~~Open a backdoor from your local machine to somewhere else / remote server~~

~~Or publiclize your port/computer to somewhere else / remote server~~

Reverse of `-L`. Throw/open your port to target server... so that others can access your local resource with targetserver:port.

Needs some config for `-R`. (From https://www.taos.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Taos-White-Paper_Advanced-SSH-Tunneling.pdf , in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` -- GatewayPorts, AllowTcpForwarding)

Maybe VPN is better solution than `-R` ... sometimes. Especially in the case of 'being able to access it' (by making it open), rather than you really want to make it available to the whole world.



# cronjob and cron tab, allowlist
`/etc/cron.allow` and `/etc/cron.deny` only controls who can run `crontab`.  

If a job is already added to cron entry for unknown reason, even if they are in `etc/cron.deny`, the job will still run.

# Bash
## Helps debugging 

```
# debug mode
exec 5> command.txt
BASH_XTRACEFD="5"
set -x
# end debug mode with set +x
```

It will keep recording commands you run in script to `command.txt`, until it sees `set +x`.

## Syntax
```
if test $? -ne 0 ; then
...
fi
```

EZ?

```
if [ $? - ne 0 ] then
...
fi 
```
OMFG, don't miss that `;`

`rh_ver= $( lsb_release -r | cut -f2 | cut -d'.' -f1 > /dev/null )`

Spot the mistakes: 
- space after =
- redirect to null should be done outside
- or redirect is not needed at all (check Misc part about `$()`)

## awk in script
`awk` in script is a bit different than `awk` in terminal ... because you need to escape the quotes.

An example for `awk` in script:
```bash
awkscript='{
        if ($4 == gid) {
                print $3 ":" $4 ":" $1 ":" $5
        }
}'

# directly using awk " { if ... } " would probably fail and hard to escape.

# ...

awk -F":" -v gid="$gid" "$awkscript" /etc/passwd | sort
echo "Number of lines: `awk -F":" -v gid="$gid" "$awkscript" /etc/passwd | sort | wc -l` "

lastid=`awk -F":" -v gid="$gid" "$awkscript" /etc/passwd | sort | tail -n 1 | cut -d ':' -f 1`
count=`awk -F":" -v gid="$gid" "$awkscript" /etc/passwd | sort | wc -l`

```

You pass variable `gid` with `gid="$gid"`, and the inline awk script needs to be quoted (`"$awkscript"`)

## Misc
`$()` reads output from stdin then assign it to a variable, so don't use `grep -q` in `$()`

